Add Best Practice: Use Simple String GAV Notation for Declaring Dependencies (#33655)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/best-practices/best_practices_dependencies.adoc

=== Tags

`<<tags_reference.adoc#tag:dependencies,#dependencies>>`

[[single-gav-string]]
== Declare Dependencies using a single GAV (`group:artifact:version`) String

When declaring dependencies without a <<version_catalogs.adoc#version-catalog,version catalog>>, prefer using the single GAV string notation `implementation("org.example:library:1.0")`.
Avoid using the named argument notation unless necessary `implementation(group = "org.example", name = "library", version = "1.0")`.

> TIP: The named argument notation may be deprecated in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: The named argument and map notations may be deprecated in the future.
```

🤔 I think we should show and name the Groovy DSL syntax next to the Kotlin syntax here as well.  Groovy is _not_ using named args, it's using a map, which is then unpacked.  This item should unambiguously recommend against the map as well.

Reviewer: Also, https://github.com/gradle/gradle/pull/33699 begins this.

However, the single-string form is more concise, easier to read, and is widely adopted in the broader JVM ecosystem.

This format is also recommended by link:https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/com.google.guava/guava[Maven Central] in its documentation and usage examples, making it the most familiar and consistent style for developers across tools.

A valid reason to use named arguments format is when resolving a dependency from an Ivy repository that requires selecting a specific configuration by name.
This syntax is only applicable for Ivy dependencies and should not be used with standard Maven modules:

[source,kotlin]
----
// Use this syntax only for Ivy modules when a specific configuration must be selected
dependencies {
    implementation(group = "org.someOrg", name = "someModule", version = "1.0", configuration = "someConf")
}
----

=== Example

==== Don't Do This

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useGAVString-avoid/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=avoid-this]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useGAVString-avoid/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=avoid-this]"]
====
<1> Avoid the named argument notation when declaring dependencies

> <2> Modifiers do not apply and can use named argument notation if needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Other modifiers methods and constraints like `exclude` are not included in this recommendation and can use named argument notation as needed
```

==== Do This Instead

++++
<div style="text-align: right;">
  <a class="download-project-link"
     data-base-path="https://github.com/gradle/gradle/tree/master/platforms/documentation/docs/src/snippets/bestPractices/useGAVString-do/"
     href="https://download-directory.github.io/?url=https://github.com/gradle/gradle/tree/master/platforms/documentation/docs/src/snippets/bestPractices/useGAVString-do/kotlin">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Download%20Project-GitHub-blue?logo=github&style=flat" alt="Download"/>
  </a>
</div>
++++

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useGAVString-do/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=do-this]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useGAVString-do/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=do-this]"]
====
<1> Use the string notation instead when declaring dependencies

> <2> Modifiers do not apply and can use named argument notation if needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Other modifiers methods and constraints like `exclude` are not included in this recommendation and can use named argument notation as needed
```
